sokushi cheat ch32
TL: delle

==p1==

天盤喰らい
heavenly record eaters
(alt) world eaters

==p2==

おおー
ohh...

ここがメルド平原?
is this the Meld Plains?

綺麗ではあるんだけど...
it's beautiful, but...

なんだか靄がかかって見通し悪いね
i have a bad feeling about how thick the fog is...

草木も生物も大気の一部も結晶化しておるように見えるな
it looks like the plants, the creatures, and even the atmosphere are crystallized.

集落っぽい建物もあるけど...
there are some village-like buildings, but...

人とか住んでるのかな?
do people really live here?

==p3==

あれに住めるって普通の人間じゃないだろうね
it's unlikely any normal people live here.

じゃあ
結品人間みたいな人かなー
when you say normal, do mean human-like?

あ!ほら
犬つばい動物が歩いてるけどあれも結晶だし
Ah, look! That dog and other animals are walking around even though they are made of crystals!

襲ってくる様子でもなさそうだね
it doesn't look like it's going to attack.

俺
犬だったら極力殺したくないから
i'd prefer to avoid killing dogs as much as possible...

犬好きなの?
do you like dogs?

うん
飼ってるよ
yeah, i have one.

もう
じいさんだからちょっと心配だけど
well, i'm a bit worried about him since he's an old man now.
(alt) well, i was taking care of him since his owner was an old man.

うちも犬いるよ
秋田犬
i have one back home as well. he's an Akita.

うむ!
壇ノ浦流には犬を戦わせる術もあるからな!
of course! there is also a Dannoura style fighting technique for dogs!

...うちの犬がやる首筋に噛みついてぐるぐる回る技ってもしかして壇ノ浦流?
...so when my dog tries to bite the neck and spin around, is that part of the Dannoura style?!
(alt) ...a technique like biting the neck and spinning around, is that part of the Dannoura style?

なんだ知らなんだのか
What, did you not know?

==p4==

地図で見ると王都へ向かう鉄道も平原を縦断してるね
lookin at the map, that railroad to the capital we were on also crosses through this plain.

線路を見つけて並走すれば王都へ辿り着けそう
だけど
If we can find the railroad track and drive parallel to it, we could probably reach the capital easier, but...

この地図車で通れるのかな?
can we even follow the map using this car?

装甲車だからなパンクには強いのではないか?
shouldn't the tires be decently puncture resistant since it's an armoured car?
(alt) isn't it unlikely we get a flat tire since it's an armoured car?

まあ
進行方向の草っぽいものを殺しながら進むぐらいならありだと思う
well, i doubt it would be much of a problem to run over grass-like things.

しかしこの平原の呪いの類のような雰囲気は一体
either way, the atmosphere of this plain seems like it's cursed...

え？
eh?

なにそれ
why's that?

お主は我が呪いから防衛しておる
i'm currently protecting you from it.

その程度のものではあるのだが
小僧は何か分からぬか?
but, that's the extent to which i know...
boy, do you know what it is?

その呪い?
ばんやりして出所がはっきりしないな
that curse? i can't really tell where the source is.

==p5==

高遠くん...
また何か勝手に殺してない?
Takatou-kun, you didn't kill something without realizing it again, right?

序神のときみたいに...
like that devil guy...

あれ以来気をつけてるよ
i've been more careful since then.

まあ今回のは今すぐ危険ってことはないと思うけど
for now though, it doesn't seem to be dangerous...

何事もなく素通りできればそれに越したことはないがな
there would be nothing better than to just pass through here without any problems.

気をつけるがよい
drive carefully.

この平原を避けて行くとすっごい遠回りになっちゃうし．．．
i guess it would be a long detour to avoid these plains...

せめて
線路沿いに進んでみようか?
then, i should probably just follow the tracks, right?

そうだね
少し行けば駅もあるみたいだよ
yeah, it looks like there is a station just a bit further.

じゃまあ
行ってみますか！
well then, let's get going!

==p6==

あれが駅かな？
is that the station?

流石に駅は結晶化してないみたいだね
that's unexpected, it doesn't look like it's been crystallized.

寄ってみる?
should we take a stop there?

うーん
特殊な環境だし事情を聞けるならそうしたいけど
hmm, since it's the exception in this environment, i would like to ask them about why, but...

私たちおたずね者みたいな扱いじゃないかな?
i wonder if they'll treat us like random visitors or not?

今さら不安になってきに
i'm getting a bit anxious now...

どのみち王都に着いたらこそこそしてられないよ
well, we won't be able to sneak around once we get to the capital anyways.

いっそ堂々と立ち寄った方がししんじゃない?
wouldn't it be better to just be straightforward?

万一の時は
俺も力はためらわずに使うし
in the event of an emergency, i won't hesitate to use my power.

う
うん
ah, sure

それなら行ってみようか
in that case, let's go.

==p7==

寒っ！
it's so cold!!

急にどうなってんの?!
why did it change all of the sudden?

氷でできてる駅ってわけでもなさそうだけど
it doesn't look like the station is made of ice though...

とりあえず中に入ろう
let's head inside for now.

待合室か．．．
中は結構レトロな感じの駅なんだね
is this the waiting room... the inside of the station looks quite retro.

誰もいないけど
無人駅．．．ってことはないカ
i don't see anyone but... it's not an unmanned station, is it?

暖房ついてるし...
it has heating afterall...

こんにちはー？
だれかいますか？
hello...? is there anyone here?

==p8==

え．．．？！
eh...?!

だ．．．大丈夫ですか？！
are you okay...?!

まって壇ノ浦だん
dannoura-san, wait a second.

==p9==

銃声．．．!!
a gunshot...!!

背後から心臓を撃たれたんだ．．．！！
he was shot in the heart from behind...!!

ざーんねんでした...
how disappointing...!

逃げられたと思った...?
did you really think i would let you run away...?

==p10==

な？
言ったろ腹撃ったってすぐにや死なねーんだよ
what? i thought you said shooting him in the stomach wouldn't kill him?

くそ!
俺の負けかよ
うぜぇなぁとっととくたばりゃいーのによ！
fuck! i guess it's my loss. i can't believe he'd kick the bucket so quickly!

そりゃ生きる望みがありや必死にもなるさ
we had to make him desperate by giving him hope.

仲間の所まで案内したら助けてやるって言ったんだからよ
i even said i would let him live if he led us to his people.

必死にさせなきゃ賭けにならんだろうよ
he wouldn't have been willing to take a chance if he wasn't desperate to survive.

お？
oh?

この駅にゃジジイしかいねえって話だったけどよ...
i guess this station the old man told us about wasn't just a lie...

いるじゃねーか女がよ
how lucky, there's a woman here.

は．．．？
ha...?

==p11==

死ね
die

え．．．えっと．．．
uh...uhm...

この状況はどうしたら...
what should we do now..

撃たれた人はもう死んでるしできることはなさそうだよ
there's nothing we can do, the guy who got shot is already dead.

==p12==

別に俺らが原因ってわけでもなさそうだし
it doesn't seem like we were the cause of this.

でもこれじゃ何が何だかさっぱりなんだけど...
now we have no way of finding out what's going on here though...

けどこいつら俺を即座に撃ち殺すつもりだったから
yeah but, those guys were going to instantly shoot me...

話を聞いてる余裕はなさそうだったけど
i don't think we would've been able to ask any questions.

この状況で全く動じていないあたり
you don't seem very affected by this situation.

壇ノ浦の後継者としては頼もしい限りだな！
that is a promising sign that you are a Dannoura successor!

こーゅー場合もーちょっとキャーキャー言っといた方がいいのかな？！
in that case, maybe it would be better to go 'kya~ kya~' for a bit longer?!

こいつらの銃はもらっとこう
we should take these guns.

もこもこさんはこういうのも詳しいんだよね?
mokomoko-san, i assume you're familiar with these?

うむ!
元の世界のものとは形か違うようだが．．．
of course! it looks the same as those back in our world...

仕組みはそう変わらぬだろう
it's unlikely the mechanisms are too different.

==p13==

兵士つばいけど荷物はさほど持ってないね
they're soldiers, but they aren't carrying any supplies.

近くに本隊か何かあるのかも．．．
that probably means they aren't far from their main army...

まさか王都の兵隊さんだったりとか．．．
do you think they are soldiers from the royal capital...?

うーん
それと分かる物もないし
hmm, there's no identification on them...

他に生きてる人もいないみたいだし．．．
and, it doesn't seem like there is anyone else in the area...

何にせよ
さっさと移動した方がよさそうだ
either way, it's probably best if we leave here quickly.

う　うーん．．．
y-yeah...

なんかまためんどくさい人たちを殺しちゃったんじゃないかなあ?
i guess we ended up killing some troublesome people again...

==p14==

[天盤]
[Heavenly Record]

それは世界の器であり世界そのものた
it is the vessel of the world; thus the world itself.
T/N: world as in realm, not planet

天盤の上にその世界を構成する様々なものが載っていて
the various things that make up the world are on the surface of it's heavenly record.

そこには何らかの知的生命体が棲忌している
this includes the kinds of intelligent life that inhabit it.

==p15==

それは概志的なものであって
it is a conceptual thing.

例えは夜霧たちが元いた世界では宇宙が
for example, the world which yogiri and friends come from looks like a cosmos.

今いる世界では天盤の上に直接海と大地か載っている
however, their current world has the land and sea right on the surface of it's heavenly record.

つまり
その世界の主な観察者か認知する世界の土台が天盤ということた
in other words, the heavenly record becomes the foundation of the world as recognized by it's main observer.

天盤は無数に存在していて
there exist a countless number of these heavenly records.

「海」と呼はれる空間に内包されている
all of which are contained in a space referred to as the 'sea'.

天盤は「海」の中に浮かぶ泡のようなものなのだ
the heavenly records are like bubbles floating in this 'sea'.

==p16==

「海」に喩えているようにこの空間には深度か存在する
as with the sea, this space has a depth to it.

深度の浅い天盤から深い天盤への移動は容易であるが
although it is easy to move from a shallow heavenly record to a deep one...

問題は下位の天盤から上位へ移動しようとした時
the problem is when trying to move from a lower heavenly record to a higher one.

この場合には莫大なエネルギーが必要となる
in such a case, a vast amount of energy is required.

夜霧たちか元の世界へそう簡単に帰れない理由の一つはそこにある
this is one of the reasons why yogiri and friends can't return to their former world easily.

==p17==

さて
now then

天盤の外側．．．「海」に棲息する生き物がいる
outside of the heavenly records... there are creatures which live in this 'sea'.

「海」の中を自由に泳ぎ
they are able to swim freely in this 'sea'...

天盤を糧に生きる
And, they feed on heavenly records.

つまりは
世界を喰らう存在...
in other words, they are beings which eat worlds...

「天盤喰らい」である
they are "heavenly record eaters".

==p18==

その世界に神と呼はれるような高位の知性体が存在すれは話は別だが
except for the high-level intelligent beings of a world that can be compared to gods...

大抵の場合は天盤喰らいの存在に気付くことすらできない
most people can't notice the existence of a heavenly record eater.

天盤喰らいは世界を丸ごと食い潰し
the heavenly record eater simply consumes the whole world.

咀嚼するのだ
chewing it as one chews food.

その世界の住人からすれは
as for the inhabitants of that world...

何の前触れもなくわけも分からないまま
without any warning and without knowing why...

全ての存在が消失することになる
they cease to exist.

==p19==

天盤らいの行動原理は単純で
the behavioural principal of the heavenly record eaters is simple.

「海」の中を泳ぎ回り手近な天盤を喰らう
swim around the 'sea' and consume nearby heavenly records.

手強い抵抗にあえはあきらめて逃け出す
when the resistance is too strong, they give up and swim away.

そんな程度の本能しか持たない存在なのたが．．．
that is the extent of their instincts...

そうして数々の世界をりながら悠久の時を過こすうち
Then, while spending an eternal time consuming different worlds...

いくつかの世界から栄養かのように知識を取り込み
they incorporate knowledge from the worlds as if it were nutritional.

少ないながら知性に目覚める個体も現れる
and so, a small amount of creatures awaken to intelligence.

==p20==

知性に目覚めた天盤喰らいは様々な行動を取り始めるが
the heavenly record eaters which awaken to intelligence begin to take various actions.

最終的には天盤内の知性体と接融しようとするのが常だった
in the end, they always try to contact and fuse with the intelligence within heavenly records.

「海」は知性のある者にとって退屈すぎるからだ
because living in the 'sea' is boring for an intelligent being.

天盤は天蓋という強固な殻に覆われているが
the surface of the heavenly records are protected by a strong shell called the canopy, but...

数多の世界を天蓋こと喰らう者には小さな穴を開けて中に入るぐらい容易いことだった
it is as simple as making a small hole to enter the canopy for the world eaters.

特別な理由はなくただ手近な天盤を選び
there is no special selection, they simply choose the closest heavenly record.

退屈しのきにその世界の知性体を観察してみようと探針のような存在を送り込むことにしたのた
they will send something like a probe to observe the intelligent life of the world simply to stave off their boredom.

==p21==

天盤喰らいは侵入した天盤の中で支配的立場にいる種族のうち
one such world eater chose to be one of the dominant species of a heavenly record, but...

最も一般的な身分に属してみることにした
it decided to belong to a common status of that race.

「人間の農民」である
it was a "human peasant".

自らの情報を圧縮した胚を適当な農民の胎内に生成し
it formulated an embryo, with its own information compressed, in the womb of a suitable farmer.

人としての身体を作り上ける
it infused itself in the body of the human being.

本体は「海」に置いたまま分身として人間の赤子の視点を得たのだ
it gained the perspective of a human baby as an alter ego while leaving its main body in the 'sea'.

人間を観察するにあたって
and it observed the humans.

まずはその赤子にただの人間として生を過こさせることにした
at first, it let the baby live out its life as a normal human being.

天盤喰らいの分身は親と同じく子供の頃から震作業に従事し
and like it's parents...
the alter ego of the world eater engaged in mundane work as a child.

==p22==

年頃になれは村の女と結婚し何人か子供をもうけ
at some point, he married a woman in the village and had children...

貧しいながらも楽しく響らす
they were poor, but joyful.

農民としてはよくできた
he enjoyed being a farmer and worked hard.

大した変化もなく同じことを繰り返すだけの人生
he had a simple and repetitive life with little change.

天盤喰らいは
eventually though, the heavenly record eater...

次第に飽き始めたしたい
start getting bored of the mundane.

転機は凶続きのとある冬の日
there was a turning point on one winter day filled with misfortune.

突如としてならす者の集団が村を占拠したのた
a group of rogues suddenly occupied the village.

村人たちのなけなしの食料を無駄に消費し
they wasted what little food the villagers had...

気に入らない者を無慘に殺し家に火を放ち抖戸に毒を撒いた
they killed those they didn't like, they set fire to houses, and they poisoned the wells.

==p23==

天盤喰らいの分身は家族と共に殺された
the alter ego of the heavenly record eater was killed along with his family.

その時天盤喰らいが感じたのは．．．
愉悦だった
and in that moment, what the world eater felt was...
pleasure

巻き起こった惨劇は退屈を破壊し「海」では味わったことのない刺激をもたらしたのだ
the intense tragedy destroyed the world eater's boredom and brought stimulus never before experienced in the 'sea'.

その思いで世界に目を向けてみれはそこに満ちているのは多種多様な刺激たった
with that in mind, it turned its attention to the rest of the world and found it to be filled with a wide variety of stimuli.

==p24==

個性を獲得しつつあった天盤喰らいは
this heavenly record eater was beginning to develop individuality.

自分自身の体験としてその世界をその刺激を味わいたくなっていた
it wanted to experience the stimuli of the world itself.

二人目を作り
it decided to create a second being...

より深くこの世界へ入り込むのた
for which it would enter the world in a deeper manner.

一人目を殺されたのは少々癪に障る
it was a little annoyed that the first one had been killed.

今度はより強力な個体を作成することにしよう
and so, this one was to be much stronger.

普段は人間として刺激を味わいつつ
normally, it would be a regular human, savoring the stimulation.

いざという時はいくらでも天盤喰らいとしての力をふるえばいい
but in the event of an emergency, it could freely use its power as a world eater.

適当に目を付けた人間の身体を依代に．．．
as a human being but with proper control...

天盤喰らいは再びこの世界に生を受けた
the heavenly record eater was born again into that world.

==p25==

全てが思うがままだった
everything was as the world eater wanted it to be.

目に付くものを手当たり次第に破壊し殺してまわったが
he went around killing and destroying everything in his sight.

それが面白いのも最初のうちだけだった
it was only interesting in the beginning.

元々敵などいないに等しいのだ
even then, he had no enemies to compete with.

ある程度続けれはそれも退屈に感じてくる
he felt as though continuing on would begin to feel boring.

==p26==

次に天盤喰らいは
and so, the world eater...

人々を支配しコントロールすることに興味を覚え始めた
began to take an interest in dominating and controlling people.

支配するのは簡単たった
after all, they were easy to rule.

力を見せつけれは人々は勝手にひれ伏していく
show your strength and people will kneel down to you on their own.

支配した人々を組織し
he then decided to organize the people he ruled.

軍隊を作り上げ街を蹂躙し徴兵して更に戦わせるしゅうりん
he built up an army, overran towns, and continually drafting people to fight for him.

戦争は天盤喰らいにとって最高の娯楽になった
war had become the favourite pastime of the heavenly record eater.

天盤喰らいに軍事の才があるわけではない
the creature had no military talent.

自ら采配を振るい成り行きに任せてはいたが
although he was in charge, he often left things to chance.

負けそうになれば天盤喰らいとしての神のごとき力を行使していたにすぎない
but if he was ever close to losing, he would simply exercise his god-like powers as a heavenly recorder eater to succeed.

==p27==

そんなことを続けるうちに天盤喰らいは一国を手中に収め
while continuing on, he decided to acquire a country of his own.

アルガンダ帝国を築き上げ世界に覇を唱え始めた
he built the Arganda empire and started his conquest of the world.

ただ武力で周辺国家を制圧するだけでそこにはなんの意義もない
there was no point in conquering the surrounding nations with force.

天盤喰らいにとってはただの娯楽なのだ
it was simply entertainment for the heavenly record eater.

天盤喰らいの好む娯楽はあくまで人同士を争わせることだった
the thing he enjoyed most was to make people compete with each other.

その娯楽をより面白くするため一応は戦術のようなものも考え実行する
and to entertain himself more, he would come up with tactics to be executed.

突飛な作戦であればあるほど面白い
the more outlandish the plan, the more interesting it was.

いずれ負けが込めば天盤喰らいの力を行使すればいいたけなのだ
and if the plan was ever going to fail, he would use the power of a heavenly record eater to turn the tables.

目下天盤喰らいが率いるアルガンダ帝国が目を付けたのが...
the Arganda Empire, led by the heavenly record eater, then set its sights on a new target...

==p28==

マニー王国
Manii Kingdom

賢者候補たちが目的地とする「王都」を擁する国であり
the "royal capital" where the sage candidates were headed is part of this kingdom.

王都の地下にある「魔界」を抑え続ける役割を担うため世界各国から不可侵とされている王国である．．．
the kingdom is considered as untouchable around the world because of its role in maintaining control over the "demon world" beneath its capital...

そろそろ結晶化地帯は抜けたみたいだね
it seems like we are almost out of the crystallized region.

この巨大なのか王都の城壁なのかなあ
i wonder if this giant wall is part of the capital.

この世界日照権とかどうなってんだろ
what about the right to light in this world
(alt) is no one in this world allowed to enjoy the sunlight?

ああ　うん．．．
haaa, i hope...

==p29==

．．．ごめん高遠さん
sorry takatou-kun...

結構慣れてきたつもりではあったんだけど．．．
i thought i was getting used to it, but...

やっぱり死体の山ドン引きだ...
the trail of corpses is really throwing me off...

バックミラー
*back mirror*

襲ってくる方が悪い
they are the ones who just kept attacking

一人殺せば殺人者千人殺せば英雄とは誰の言った言葉だったか
a murderer is someone who kills one person, but there's a saying "who else but a hero would kill thousands of people?".

し気に病むでない
don't worry about it

人の評価など時と場合で変わるものよ
people's evaluations change over time.

襲ってきたの5人と同じ軍つばかったよね?
weren't those five guys earlier part of the same army?

軍隊にしてはこんな風に全滅するまで追ってくるなんて変だけどね...
it's really strange for an army to keep chasing until the last man is wiped out...

==p30==

その気になれは世界を丸ごと喰らうこともできる存在が
he's an existence which can eat the whole world, so...

天盤内のパワーバランスや不可侵条約などに目をくれるはずもない
of course he won't pay attention to the heavenly record's power balance or its non-aggression treaties.

それこそマニー王国を手中に収め魔界の封印が解けでもすれば
once the Manii Kingdom is in his hands, he can break the seal on the demon world.

より刺激的な娯楽になるだろう
and that would provide much entertainment.

知性に目覚めた天盤喰らいにとって
after all, for a heavenly record eater who has awakened to intelligence...

自らの思いっきを実行すること
doing whatever you want...

それが何よりも面白いことだった
is more interesting than anything else.

マニー王国の王都にほど近いメルド平原は
The Meld Plains near the royal capital of Manii Kingdom....

結晶蟲と呼ばれる化け物が大量に棲思しており全てが結晶化する魔境である
is a magical place where a large number of monsters called crystal bugs live, and everything there crystallizes.

ここに大量の兵を潜ませるなど永人には考えもつかないことだ
hiding a large number of soldiers there is something no one else would have considered.

絶え間ないの襲撃に徒に兵を消耗しやがて兵士たちも結晶化してしまうことだろう
the constant assault will exhaust the soldiers and they will eventually crystallize.

==p31==

普通なら馬鹿馬鹿しい限りだが
normally, it would be a stupid idea...

だからこそここからの攻撃は奇襲となる得る
but that's exactly why a surprise attack from here would be so successful.

天盤喰らいは平原中央に陣を敷き
the heavenly record eater setup my camp in the center of the plains.

兵士たちに平原を通る鉄道路線を掌握することを命じた
and he ordered his soldiers to take control of the railroad line that goes through the plains.

だがとある駅から報告が途絶えた
but when he sent another group to investigate...

駅制圧部隊が全滅し武器も奪われて
he was told the station control unit had been wiped out and their weapons were robbed.

これはよくない知らせだ
this was bad news.

天盤喰らいが過去に喰らった世界の知識から作ったオーバーテクノロジー兵器も役に立たない何者かがこの地にいる
someone who is more powerful than futuristic weapons created using his knowledge gained from devouring worlds.

その場から王都へ向かって逃走する車についての報告があった
there was a report of a car escaping from that area heading towards the royal capital.

王都に自軍の存在を気付かれては奇襲が台無しだ
his surprise attack would be ruined if the capital notices the existence of his army.

==p32==

全軍をもってその車両を止めることを命じ
he ordered the entire army to stop that vehicle.

それは直ちに実行されるだろうと思っていた
he even thought it would be dealt with quickly

そもそもマニー王国を滅ばす程度のことは天盤喰らいとしての力を直接揮えば容易いことだ
in the first place, he could have easily destroyed the Manni Kingdom if he used my power as a heavenly record eater.

だが
それをしてしまっては面白くない
but there would be no fun in that.

あくまでこれは自身の娯楽の一部たからだ
this is all part of his entertainment after all.

だが
however...

==p33==

いつまで経っても朗報はもたらされない
it had been a while, yet he still had not been brought good news.

しびれを切らした天盤喰らいは
and so, the heavenly record eater lost his nerve.

力の一部だけを行使して状況を直接観察することにした
he decided to use just a part of his power so he can observe the situation directly.

一台の装甲車がメルド平原を走り続けている
just a single armoured car fleeing from the Meld Plains.

配下であるアルガンダ帝国の兵たちは．．．
the soldiers of the Arganda Empire under his control died...

発砲することもなく
without a single gunshot.

馬や竜や戦車に乗ったまま突然事切れ
no matter whether they were riding horses, dragons, or tanks...

蛇行しぶつかり合い周囲の岩や木に激突して果てていた
they would just run into each other and crash into the surrounding rocks and trees.

==p34==

天盤喰らいには意味か分からなかった
the heavenly record eater couldn't understand.

だが
その間にも損耗率は四割を越え
but in those series of events, he lost over 40% of his soldiers.

仕方がない
it's no use.

これでは予定していた軍事行動も起こせはしない
this meant he wouldn't be able to move forward with his planned military strategy.

メルド平原からマニー王国への奇襲を仕掛ける．．．
to launch a surprise attack on the Manii Kingdom from the Meld Plains...

天盤喰らいが楽しみたかった思いっきはその一点であった
was one of the things the heavenly record eater really wanted to do.

とりあえずは装甲車を始末し軍勢を立て直すか．．．
for the time being, should I get rid of the armoured car or rebuild my army...

==p35==

さて
こいつら
let's deal with these guys first.

どうやって殺してくれよう...
how can i kill them...

その時天盤喰らいは
the heavenly record eater, in that very moment...

十秒後に自分が死ぬことを悟った
realized that in ten seconds, he was going to die.

...は？
...what?

分身の死によって擬似的に体験してはいるが
although he had a simulated experience due to the death of his first alter ego...

本質的な意味でそれを理解していなかった
he still did not intrinsically understand it.

==p36==

天盤験らいのような存在にとって時空とは己の一部
space and time are simply part of beings like heavenly record eaters.

自らの意志で制御できるものであり未来の予知など造作もない
such things can be controlled by them simply willing them to, and there is no such things as predicting the future for a being that can control the future.

だが十秒より後の未来を見通すことが叶わなくなっていた
however, he was unable to see the future beyond 10 seconds.

自分に死があることすら想像の埒外だ
it is hard for him to even imagine his own mortality.

天盤を喰らい続けいくつもの世界を内包する己を殺す方法など自分でも考えっかない
for someone who eats heavenly records and contains many consumed worlds, he can't even think of a way to kill himself.

死とは
なんなのか
what is...
death?

==p37n==

ch 33: 11/25
wn: v3ch2

on pg12, tomochika says "i should go kya kya" in response to mokomoko saying that her being desensitized to death is a good thing. i don't know if the grammar was clearly portrayed, but basically she's saying that it might be better to react horrified like a normal person would in those situations for a bit longer to avoid becoming an emotionless killer that the dannoura style seems to lead to.

the kanji used for "heavenly record" are '天盤', the first being heaven/celestial and the second being disk/record/board/tray. i went with heavenly record as that is what the translated webnovel used and it makes sense that information can be stored on a record, but they are also described as bubble-like objects in a sea, so the disk-shape of it is probably less relevant.

on pg28, takatou says something along the lines of "can no one enjoy the light" but literally he references something called "right to light" where someone has "the right to have sunlight falling on one's building not be obstructed by new buildings." see: 日照権 (にっしょうけん)

this manga (and light novel) series has been officially licensed in the west by j-novel.club, so if you would like higher quality translations and edits, check it out. they have finished volume 1 and are publishing volume 2 currently. also, the first chapter of both volumes are free to preview.
